reword documentation on `nix-copy-closure` (#10709)
NixOS/nix: doc/manual/src/command-ref/nix-copy-closure.md

# Name

`nix-copy-closure` - copy store objects to or from a remote machine via SSH

# Synopsis

`nix-copy-closure`
  [`--to` | `--from` ]
  [`--gzip`]
  [`--include-outputs`]
  [`--use-substitutes` | `-s`]
  [`-v`]

>   [_user_@]_machine_[:_port_] _paths_

Reviewer: Fwiw, SSH would call this a "destination" and that would be absolutely awful for us to use.

# Description

> Given _paths_ accesible from the source machine, `nix-copy-closure` computes the [closure](@docroot@/glossary.md#gloss-closure) of those paths (i.e. all their dependencies in the Nix store), and copies [store objects](@docroot@/glossary.md#gloss-store-object) in the closure to the target machine via SSH.

Author: The idea behind using "accessible" was to convey that the machine you're running the command from has access to some Nix store(s), and so does the remote machine you're copying to or from. I'll check if I can use "remote machine" instead.

It doesn’t copy store objects that are already present on the target machine.

> **Note**
>

> > While the Nix store to use on the client can be specified on the command line with the [`--store`](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#conf-store) option, the Nix store to be accessed on the remote machine can only be [configured statically](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#configuration-file) on that remote machine.

Reviewer: What is the client? The `nix-copy-closure` command?
I guess it might make sense to borrow that term from SSH, but that precisely not what this store is about.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The default Nix store (used when perhaps either `--from` or `--to` is unset) can be specified on the command line with the [`--store`](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#conf-store) option, but the Nix store to be accessed on the remote machine(s) can only be [configured statically](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#configuration-file) on that remote machine.
```

Since `nix-copy-closure` calls `ssh`, you may need to authenticate with the remote machine.
In fact, you may be asked for authentication _twice_ because `nix-copy-closure` currently connects twice to the remote machine: first to get the set of paths missing on the target machine, and second to send the dump of those paths.
When using public key authentication, you can avoid typing the passphrase with `ssh-agent`.

# Options

  - `--to` _machine_

>     Copy the closure of _paths_ from a Nix store accessible from the local machine to the Nix store on the remote _machine_.

Reviewer: This suggests that it doesn't support _to_ and _from_ simultaneously.
(Also it's not the flag that does the copying)
How about this?

```suggestion
    Defines the source of the paths to be from _machine_ instead of the local store or, if set, the default [store](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#conf-store).
```

Author: > This suggests that it doesn't support _to_ and _from_ simultaneously.

It doesn't, the direction is a boolean: https://github.com/NixOS/nix/blob/a57abbd143f8ed44e823c3244e93507f64020878/src/nix-copy-closure/nix-copy-closure.cc#L28-L31

Author: In fact, there is a problem with documentation because it's wrong! The code isn't pairing the flags with the _machine_ argument.

Reviewer: Oh wow, this does change the whole picture.

>     This is the default.

Reviewer: Wait, what does this actually even mean?
I don't think we need it.

```suggestion
```

# Description

`nix-copy-closure` copies [store objects](@docroot@/glossary.md#gloss-store-object) along with all their dependencies to or from another machine via the SSH protocol.
It doesn’t copy store objects that are already present on the target machine.

> Given one or more _paths_ accesible from the client, `nix-copy-closure` computes the [closure](@docroot@/glossary.md#gloss-closure) of those paths (i.e. all their dependencies in the Nix store), and copies all store objects in the closure to the remote machine via SSH.

Reviewer: This use of "client" is wrong, or certainly confusing when `--from` is used.

Reviewer: "copies all store objects"? We just said it doesn't.

> With the `--from` option, the direction is reversed:

Reviewer: :anger: why do we start with wrong statements just to correct them afterwards?

Author: Classic symptom of conservative incremental changes. But rewriting all of documentation doesn't get you merges...

The closure of _paths_ on a remote machine is copied to the specified Nix store accessible from the client.

> This command is efficient because it only sends the store paths that are missing on the target machine.

Reviewer: Already said that before we contradicted ourselves.

Since `nix-copy-closure` calls `ssh`, you may need to authenticate with the remote machine.
In fact, you may be asked for authentication _twice_ because `nix-copy-closure` currently connects twice to the remote machine: first to get the set of paths missing on the target machine, and second to send the dump of those paths.
When using public key authentication, you can avoid typing the passphrase with `ssh-agent`.

# Options

  - `--to` _machine_

    Copy the closure of _paths_ from the local Nix store to the Nix store on _machine_.
    This is the default.

  - `--from` _machine_

    Copy the closure of _paths_ from the Nix store on _machine_ to the local Nix store.

  - `--gzip`

    Enable compression of the SSH connection.

  - `--include-outputs`

    Also copy the outputs of [store derivation]s included in the closure.

    [store derivation]: @docroot@/glossary.md#gloss-store-derivation

  - `--use-substitutes` / `-s`

    Attempt to download missing store objects on the target from [substituters](@docroot@/command-ref/conf-file.md#conf-substituters).
    Any store objects that cannot be substituted on the target are still copied normally from the source.

>     This is useful, for instance, if the connection between the source and target machine is slow, but the connection between the target machine and `nixos.org` (the default binary cache server) is fast.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This is useful, for instance, if the connection between the source and target machine is slow, but the connection between the target machine and `cache.nixos.org` (the default binary cache server) is fast.
```
